
# Examples from http://css4.pub

These examples are from http://css4.pub.  The HTML and CSS has been placed
here however some resources are online, prince will download those
automatically provided that you have an internet connection.

## Poetry

Files: digite.html digite.pdf

This document reconstructs the first edition of Henrik Ibsen's poetry
collection, first published in 1871. His typographers in Copenhagen didn't
have all the Norwegian letters in their typecases, so they improvised. The
modern-day equivalent is to modify font files, and to hand-code other errors
they made. The poems are in Norwegian, but a section in English describes
the process.

The content is public domain and the stylesheet is Copyright (C) 2015
YesLogic Pty Ltd and distributed under the CC Attribution 4.0 International
license.

## Essay

Thomas Malthus published his essay on Principles of Population in 1798. At
the time, the descending "s" was in fashion and this reconstruction uses the
'text-replace' property to recreate the original printed book (Archive.org
has a scanned copy). Also, the document uses ligatures and the Table of
Contents is generated with a script.

The content is public domain and the stylesheet is Copyright (C) 2015
YesLogic Pty Ltd and distributed under the CC Attribution 4.0 International
license.

## Scientific Journal

files: example.html example.pdf

The USENIX conference Proceedings has a two-column layout with figures
floating to the top and bottom. In the HTML source of this sample document,
references are inline but appear at the end by way of JavaScript.

Copyright (C) 2015 YesLogic Pty Ltd and distributed under the CC Attribution
4.0 International license.

## Letter

This business letter uses several font families, and even a script to find
the current date. The footer at the bottom of the page floats there by
itself.

Copyright (C) 2015 YesLogic Pty Ltd and distributed under the CC Attribution
4.0 International license.

## Oliver Twist

Project Gutenberg has published Oliver Twist and many other classic titles
in HTML. By adding a small style sheet, a PDF file can be created. A small
script automatically generates the Table of Contents.

The content is public domain and the stylesheet is Copyright (C) 2015
YesLogic Pty Ltd and distributed under the CC Attribution 4.0 International
license.

## Cascading Style Sheets – Designing for the Web

This book, Cascading Style Sheets – Designing for the Web, was the first
printed book written in HTML and CSS. The sample document contains the
frontmatter and first chapter. 

Unknown copyright and licensing.

## Textbook example

Files: somatosensory.html somatosensory.pdf

Sidenotes are often placed in the outside margin of textbooks, and in the
PDF version of document they alternate between left and right side. Figures
and tables float to the top and bottom of pages, and wide content extend
into margins. 

Unknown copyright and licensing.

